# Dynamic Model System



English  |  [简体中文](https://github.com/lt502676921/dynamic-model-system/blob/main/README.zh-CN.md)



## Description

A system with Low-Code philosophy, generate modules and pages by filling in the form. 

In the practice of developing the backstage system, found that most scenes have similarities. We constantly think about how to mass-produce such modules and pages. Finally, we designed and implemented this system.

#### First stage：

- Define the fields required to describe the layout of a block in the page on the Server-Side,  and output complete set of configuration information.
- After the client fetches the configuration information and passes it to the encapsulated component, the page can be generated.

In actual work,  the Front-End engineer can accept the data returned by the server through the BFF layer, package the data (add page layout information to the data), and return it to the view layer. By encapsulated components in the view layer, the layout information in the data will drive page rendering and displaying. 

#### Second stage：

- Sorting out the content to be filled in and developing the form page at the Front-End. Provide it to the operator.
- The operator describes the page layout by  filling the layout informatin in the form. Thus, how the page layout is customized by the operator
- The Server-Side parses the layout information submitted by the Front-End, and executes corresponding operations (create table, write data into menu table and model table, etc)
- When the Front-End accesses the page generated by configuration, the configuration information from the Front-End will be returned, the page will display.

In actual work, the page which can be fill in layout information will opened to the business related personnel such as operators and product managers, so that business personnel can "develop" modules and pages through configuration.

### Instructions

- This solution can be applied to the generation of similar pages, but is not suitable If the page needs to be highly customized.
- In addition, if there is no BFF layer under the original architecture, it is recommended to promote the transformation of the Server-Side. The establishment of BFF layer will increase the instability of the system, and corresponding operation and maintenance facilities are needed to ensure the stability of services. Therefore, whether a BFF layer is necessary depends on the volume of business.



## Technical selection

- Front-End：React，Ant Design Pro，Formily v1
- Back-End：Nodejs，Express
- Database：MySQL
- Authentication：JWT



## Design ideas

- Original modules in the system
  - Router
    - Get data from **services**
    - Get layout from **models**
    - Return `{ data, layout }`

- Modules generated by configuring
  - Router
    - Check route name
    - Get`{ data, layout }` from dataBase
    - Return `{ data, layout }`



## Usage

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/lt502676921/dynamic-model-system.git
# start the database
# import sql file into the database
# modify the configuration for connecting the server to the database
$ cd server
$ npm install
$ node app.js

$ cd antDPro-client
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

